The Joe Rogan experience.
In Nepal,
the reason that you ate a rat was the round was considered the strongest animal
and, and, uh, you weaned kids on it, um,
because you want the kid to grow it to be strong. Really? Yeah.
And so they would often wean kids and get to stick tiny little piece. Yeah,
yeah. Uh, the cow year.
And that was the only time I actually took antibiotics prophylactically,
which is something you're not, you're not supposed to do. Uh,
but I just decided that, you know, I, it was my second year.
I didn't want to get ill.
Cal urine has some weird, uh,
pseudo medicinal purposes over there. They're using it for people that are,
that are suffering from COVID. And there was a, yeah, there was this like, uh,
this guy from I'm trying to remember the country,
I don't remember,
but he was criticizing like how ridiculous this practice is of, uh,
giving cow urine to sick people.
It was, well, you know, it's, it's funny,
you say ignorant because for me really,
what was so important about that experience with less learning, how weird I was,
and that is, you know, um, uh, how weird I was to them,
you know, and how many different ways there are to be human. Right. And so,
you know, um, uh, I, um, uh, you know,
I participated in marrying off one of our sisters, right.
Because I'm an older brother and girl 16, you know,
time to get her married at 16. Oh.
Yeah.
Dude. Yeah. Well, you know, people would come by and ask for a hand,
this is what the process was and often bring gifts.
And I'm there with the other brothers and a guy would come and leave and
somebody would say to me, well, what did you think of him?
And the first time they asked, I said, valine and I cost it out.
Which means what does little sister fat good. Well, and people just cracked up.
And I heard about that for two years.
I would walk to other parts of the district when people would say, oh,
I heard about you. You're the guy who asked what boy, he things.
And the point was that wasn't relevant to them.
That wasn't what the experience was, right.
That wasn't a relevant variable. And, you know,
I would explain to them that in my country, you actually choose your own spouse.
And they would say, well, how do you do that? And I say, well,
you find somebody that you love. And then they would say, well,
then what if you don't love them? And then I'd say, well,
there's this thing called divorce. You know,
and what I realized was that the way I thought about how all this should work,
which is so radically different from theirs and not necessarily better or worse,
right. They were system had its own logic and it was static. It was stable,
right. If you don't marry for love, right.
You're not going to get divorced because you're out of love. Right.
That wasn't the purpose of it. The purpose was, it was social.
It was familiar what had to do with Dwayne and communities, you know, and again,
I didn't grow up there, so that's not what I do or what I would want to do.
But what I learned was how many different ways there are to do, you know,
how many different ways there are to be human and, um,
always to resist the automatic assumption that, that your way is the better way,
you know, because we all do that too. And by the way,
I did some of that in Nepal. I mean, you know,
one of my other really enduring memories is my best student was of the,
the, um, the so-called Cami cast, which is metalworker, which is an untouchable,
um, it's way down that, right. It's not as low as a Shoemaker. And, uh,
you know, they have a caste system, right. And at the bottom,
there are people that are called untouchables because you're literally not
supposed to touch them or anything. But yes. I mean, that's how, you know,
shoemakers, especially because they deal with was shooting with cows,
they deal with, they deal with leather. Right. And, and, you know, um, so why.
Why.
And, and well, because the cow is a sacred animal, right? You need shins.
Yes, you do. Right. And so in the, you know, in the,
the Hindu system evolved to have a cast that did precisely that. Wow. Right.
I mean, you know.
Did you communicate with those people at all? Oh, sharp. What was it like? Yeah.
It must have felt terrible.
Well, I mean, here's the story. Um, the metalworking family,
I actually went down to their house and I had a meal there and I
come back and I tell my Ahmad, that means mother of my family.
And we were Chet trees, which is way up there. It's not Brahman,
which is the highest. And, uh, that's the priestly caste, but the,
the Chet Reese are second, uh, you know, they're,
they were historically the military caste. He's like Babu. That means baby,
which is what he called me. Babu. You, you,
you ate rice at a metal workers house.
Do you know how filthy those people are? You know, what were you thinking?
And I'm like, listen to, I just don't believe in cast. You know,
I think everyone's the same and PS, you know, what's going to happen.
I wake up in the middle of the night and I'm just incredibly ill and I just go
outside and I'm puking my guts out. Um, I can hear me,
he comes from the other room and she's like, listen, Bobby,
you can say it in Warren. Yeah. You know, I mean, you know, uh, and,
and again, you know, it was really useful for me.
It's not like I suddenly believe in the caste system because I don't. Right.
But I think it's really useful just to have all your assumptions challenged,
you know, and that's really what it did for me. And here I was,
I'm this American I'm making this great statement about how all people are
equal. Well, you know what I mean, 20 years earlier in my own country,
they had a caste system, right. That went back to the 16 hundreds. Uh,
and that was the other formative experience of being in Nepal.
That was actually the first place that I started to think about American
history.
What did you, when they were talking about the arranged marriage?
Yeah. And when you were saying that in your country, people get to choose. Yeah.
Like what did you think about, but what is there, like,
how do they explain it to you in a way where it made sense?
Did they attempt to, or did they just say, this is how it's always been?
Will, you know,
I would say that the things that are most common sensical to us often,
we don't have to explain. Right. Because they're part of our ether. Right.
But I think the logic was this, you know, that, um, uh, you,
you, you have to create families. Right.
And so you have to yeah. Yeah. Because you've got to, you know, you,
you have to perpetuate the species. Right. And so, you know,
the, the simplest and the most static way to do that is to have the girls, um,
uh, marry guys who can, who have enough wherewithal to take care of them.
Right. That can bring you something, right.
Because it's a reciprocal arrangement. Right. Um,
and this is one why in rural Nepal at the time,
people wanted to have boys, not girls. They used to say, Choto boss cha shorty,
John Shaw, which means, uh, the sun stays. And the girl goes,
because of course the system was also Petro local, which means that, you know,
you go and live in the house of the guy that you've married. Right.
So in the house I live with the older brothers,
they all had wives who live there. Right. But when the girls got married,
they had to go somewhere else. Um, so that was, yeah. Well that again,
and it's, it's ironic because believe it, or not, 20 years later,
I went back to my village with,
with my older daughter who was a junior in high school at the time.
And the three-day walk had become about a day's walk because they had,
they had cut a tractor road kind of up half, half into the mountains.
And the first guy that I ran into, he just said, uh, Hey, what are you been
like, I haven't seen you around. They're like, oh,
you brought your daughter a great let's drink rice wine. You know, basically,
you know, somebody had died and somebody had gotten married and, you know,
somebody had a kid,
but the one thing that was really different and this speaks to globalization is
a lot of the younger men had gone to places like the United Arab Emirates to
work, you know? Um, and that was ironic too, because you know,
the old story was the sun stays and the girl goes right.
A lot of the sons had gone, but they had gone outside of the country.
And that's the way, you know, so many of these condoms work in,
in that part of the world.
And you see if the girl's marriage worked out.
Well again, you know, go, it all works out. Right. I mean,
you know, it works out because it was designed for social reasons,
not for personal ones, you know,
it's not about what she thinks or about what he thinks. Uh, you know,
it's about kind of, you know, bringing together families, creating communities,
uh, bringing up kids, um, uh, it wasn't about sentiment. Although,
you know, I, I, as I got closer to people in the community,
I've found out that after a marriage was arranged,
often you did develop feelings for the person often. Yeah.
It's just that those feelings, weren't the foundation of it. Right.
They weren't what spawned it, they were an offshoot of it.
They weren't a cause of.
It. Did it make you feel uncomfortable that they were doing that? Not in.
The waist. And in fact, I mean,
that was when I started to read history because of course in most parts of the
world, including where we are right now, historically marriage was a rage.
But I would imagine that, like, if you have this conversation with a feminist,
for instance, they would have a real issue with that. And a real,
and also a real issue with your acceptance of it. Right.
Well, again, I'm not saying that I accepted for me and,
and, uh, because that, wasn't my expectation, you know? Um,
but you know, uh, I think it's, it's worth asking ourselves, um,
the degree to which we know we're right. And, you know,
I think that at the end of the day, we don't, all of us have opinions.
All of us have biases. All of us have learned certain things,
but learn at hand who was a, you know,
a famous jurist and a federal court judge. Um, he, one of,
one of the things he said, that's always stuck with me is that, um,
the spirit of Liberty,
which is really what we're talking about is the spirit that is not so sure of
itself. And I'm always love that. Right? So I'm a human being.
I have biases opinions, very strong ones,
but I think that the worst human attribute is self certainty.
I think it's the most dangerous one, you know? And, uh, for me,
the peace score was just a great way to challenge that and just say, okay, look,
I'm not going to have an arranged marriage. And by the way, I don't,
and I'm not going to marry off my daughters. Um,
but in another part of the world, they do that. Um,
and that's decreasingly the case by the way, right?
Because these places have modernized.
So they get the internet done. What the I could just meet a guy. I really like.
Exactly. Right. And so these, you know, I mean, when we went back to Nepal,
it had in my village, it was in a remote place. So it was relatively static,
but there had been many other changes. I mean,
just think of all these guys going to the UAE to work in construction sites.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free. Only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.